h1. jQuery autocomplete

Rails Auto Completion plugin using jQuery-UI[1] widget; it works similarly to the original rails auto complete, but generating unobtrusive javascript. Additional features:

* named scope items filtering, based on a customized list of autocomplete options.

*WARNING NOTE*: This is an active work in progress - currently only used on few live projects right now. Use at your own discretion.

h2. Usage example

In the controller you can use the macro function as such

<pre><code>class ExampleController < ApplicationController
    auto_complete_for :fruit, :name
    ...
end
</code></pre>

In your views:

<pre><code><%= text_field_with_auto_complete :fruit, :name %>
</code></pre>

be sure to include the jquery/jquery-ui javascript in your layout:

<pre><code><%= javascript_include_tag 'jquery, 'jquery-ui.min', 'jquery-ui-i18n.min' %>
</code></pre>

h2. Named scopes with auto_complete_for:

auto_complete_for now optionally accepts a block that is called with the item list and HTTP parameters when the auto complete AJAX request is received. This block can be used to specify that a named scope be used to generate a customized list of autocomplete options.

h3. Example using anonymous scope:

<pre><code>auto_complete_for :fruit, :shape do |items, params|
  items.scoped( { :conditions => [ "colour = ?", params['fruit']['color'] ] })
end
</code></pre>

h3. Example using named scope:

Having the model:

<pre><code>class Fruit < ActiveRecord::Base
  belongs_to :owner
  named_scope :by_owner,
    lambda { |owner_name| {
      :include => :owner,
      :conditions => [ "owner.name = ?", owner_name ]
    } }
end
</code></pre>

In the controller you can use the macro function as such

<pre><code>auto_complete_for :fruit, :name do | items, params |
  items.by_owner(params['owner'])
end
</code></pre>

h2. Todo

* test, test... test!

h2. Found a Bug?

Please direct all queries to the issue tracker: "http://github.com/michelefranzin/jquery_autocomplete/issues":http://github.com/michelefranzin/jquery_autocomplete/issues

h2. Credits

Thanks to Paul Smith for the "original idea":http://github.com/elandesign/formtastic_autocomplete.git and Pat Shaughnessy for "inspirating":http://patshaughnessy.net/repeated_auto_complete me the named scope part.

h2. References

fn1. "jQuery-UI":http://jqueryui.com/

h2. Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Michele Franzin. See LICENSE for details.